.TH "MPDlcd" 1 "January 2012" "MPDlcd v0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
MPDlcd \- A tool to display MPD status on a lcdproc server
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpdlcd
.RI --help

.B mpdlcd
.RI [ options ]
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
MPDlcd is a tool to display the status of a Music Player Daemon on a
.BR lcdproc (1)
server.
.P
It supports definition of custom screen patterns, and adapts them to the LCD width and height.
Configuration is done in the
.I /etc/mpdlcd.conf
file and can be overridden through command-line options.
.P
.BR mpdlcd
supports logging to syslog (local or remote), stdout or to a user-chosen file.
.
.
.SH SCREEN PATTERNS
The lines to display on the LCD are defined in a
.BR pattern,
which describes how fields should be arranged on each line.

Width is automatically adjusted to the screen size;
.BR mpdlcd
will automatically select a pattern whose length matches the screen height.
.
.SS Pattern syntax
The general format of a pattern line is:
.br
.B "{song format='%(artist)s - %(title)s',speed=2} {elapsed}/{total}"

The escaping character is
.BR "\(rs" " (backslash):"
it will always make the next character non-special, anywhere in the string.

A pattern line may contain:
.br
- Fields, enclosed in curly brackets -- the
.I {song...}
,
.I "{elapsed}"
or
.I "{total}"
blocks in the above example;
.br
- Raw text, which is displayed as is -- the
.I "'space'"
,
.I "'/'"
blocks of the example.
.

The definition of a field is:
.br
.IR "{kind}" " or " "{kind option1=val1,option2=val2,...}"
where
.I kind
is the field kind (see below), followed by an optional list of field options.
The option values may be enclosed in simple quotes
.IR "'" " or double quotes " \*(lq "."

Any text which does not belong to a field will be displayed as is, in a fixed manner (using the
.I fixed
field).
.
.SS Fields
.
.P
Elements displaying MPD informations are described in
.IR fields "."
Those fields are refreshed at regular intervals, when related MPD data (song, elapsed time, state) is updated.

Available fields are:
.br
.RS 5
.HP
.B fixed
Display a fixed string.
.br
Accepts the following options:
.RS 10
.
.TP
.I text
The text to display
.
.RE
.
.HP
.B state
Displays the MPD state with an adequate icon --
.IR PLAY ", " PAUSE " or " STOP.
.
.HP
.B total
The total duration of the current song, in a
.I "mm:ss"
format.
.
.HP
.B elapsed
The elapsed time in the current song, in a
.I "mm:ss"
format.
.
.HP
.B remaining
The remaining time for the current song, in a
.I "mm:ss"
format.
.
.HP
.B song
Informations about the current song, as a scrolling text.
.br
Accepts the following options:
.RS 10
.
.TP
.I speed
The scroll rate (move every N seconds), default 2.
.
.TP
.I width
Fix the width of the field, or automatically adjust it if set to -1 (the default).
.
.TP
.I format
The printf-like string to use as a template for the displayed text.
Strings with the
.I %(<tag>)s
format will be replaced by the given song tag, which can be one of
.IR title ", " artist ", " album " and " duration
.RE
.RE
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.\" --help
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Output a brief help message.
.
.\" --config
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\^\-config " CONFIG_FILE"
Read configuration from the given file instead of the default
.I /etc/mpdlcd.conf
.
.
.SS Display options
.
.\" --refresh
.TP
.BI \-\^\-refresh " RATE"
The refresh rate for the display (float).
Queries will be sent to the MPD at this rate.
.
.\" --pattern
.TP
.BI \-\^\-pattern " PATTERN"
Force the use of the given pattern, skipping automatic choice based on screen height.
Lines of the pattern must be separated by a line break
.I (\\\\n).
.
.\" --patterns
.TP
.BI \-\^\-patterns " HEIGHT:PATTERN"
Register a pattern for a screen height.
This option can be specified multiple times to set various patterns for various heights.
If more than one pattern is provided for the same height, the last one is used, and a warning is issued.
.
.\" --extra-fields
.TP
.BI \-\^\-extra-fields " MODULE_LIST"
.B "Advanced feature!"
Import Python modules from this comma-separated list as a source of extra fields.
See the internal documentation for details on the specific API to use.
.
.SS Connection options
.
.\" --lcdproc
.TP
.BI \-l\ \-\^\-lcdproc " HOST:PORT"
Connect to the
.BR lcdproc
server at the given
.I HOST:PORT
.
.\" --mpd
.TP
.BI \-m,\ \-\^\-mpd " HOST:PORT"
Connect to the
.BR mpd
server at the given
.I HOST:PORT
.
.\" --lcdproc-charset
.TP
.BI \-\^\-lcdproc-charset " CHARSET"
Encode text (song title, ...) sent to the
.BR lcdproc
server with the given
.I CHARSET
.
.\" --retries
.TP
.BI \-r,\ \-\^\-retries " RETRIES"
Number of retries at startup before considering the server as dead
.
.\" --retry-wait
.TP
.BI \-w,\ \-\^\-retry-wait " RETRY_WAIT"
Time to wait between connection retries.
.
.\" --lcdd-debug
.TP
.BI \-\^\-lcdd-debug
Send to stderr all messages exchanged with the
.BR LCDd (1)
server
.
.SS Logging options
.
.\" --syslog
.TP
.BI \-s,\ \-\^\-syslog
Enable syslog logging
.
.\" --no-syslog
.TP
.BI \-\^\-no\-syslog
Disable syslog logging
.
.\" --syslog-facility
.TP
.BI \-\^\-syslog-facility " FACILITY"
The syslog facility to which messages should be sent
.
.\" --syslog-server
.TP
.BI \-\^\-syslog-server " SERVER"
Log to the syslog server at SERVER.
Use
.I /dev/log
to log on the local system.
.
.\" --logfile
.TP
.BI \-f,\ \-\^\-logfile " LOGFILE"
Log to the local file LOGFILE; can be used along with
.B \-\-syslog.
.
.\" --loglevel
.TP
.BI \-\^\-loglevel " LOGLEVEL"
Log all messages at or above the given level.
Options are:
.I debug
.I info
.I warning
.I error
.I critical
.
.\" --debug
.TP
.BI \-\^\-debug " COMPONENTS"
Enable debug for the given comma-separated list of components, to choose from:
.
.RS
.TP
.I lcdproc
Debug the interactions with lcdproc
.
.TP
.I mpd
Debug the interactions with mpd
.
.TP
.I display_fields
Debug the setup of display lines and fields
.
.TP
.I display_fields.parser
Debug the pattern parser
.RE

This option also accepts any Python logger name, which can be helpful to debug extra components (network libs, ...)
.
.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/mpdlcd.conf
.RS
Global configuration file for
.BR mpdlcd.
See
.BR mpdlcd.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.
Known limitations:
.br
- It is currently impossible to have two 'flexible' fields on the same line.
.br
- There lacks a "padding" pattern field.

Bugs should be filled at
.B http://github.com/rbarrois/mpdlcd/issues
.
.SH AUTHORS
mpdlcd is written by Raphael Barrois <raphael.barrois+mpdlcd@polytechnique.org>.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
mpdlcd.conf(5), mpd(1), lcdproc(1), LCDd(1)
